---
layout: post
title: A Cross-language Analysis of Language Tutors’ Corrective Feedback and Learners’ Uptake and Repair when Learning via Videoconferencing Tool, Utah State University
tags: research
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 19 Sep 2015

h2. Lead Investigators

Dr. Ko-Yin Sung, Utah State University
Frederick Poole, Utah State University

h2. Overview

Advances in technology have produced an abundance of digital tools for language teachers and learners. Videoconferencing tools, which allow learners to engage in authentic communication in a digital environment, show much promise for developing language skills. However, research surrounding such tools is still in its infancy.

This study will examine the effectiveness of online teaching strategies by analyzing corrective feedback (CF) used by native-speaking language tutors and second language learner responses to CF. After 10 online learning sessions, learners will be given a follow-up quiz to determine which CF types lead to better retention of corrected errors. In addition, surveys regarding learner perceptions of corrective feedback strategies and the affordances of a videoconferencing tool for developing language skills will be administered. Finally, results from both the tutor-student interactions analysis and student surveys will be compared across three languages (French, Arabic, and Chinese) to determine if specific language characteristics influence the type of CF given and the student perception of the tool.

The results of this study will help inform videoconferencing software developers of the specific needs of language learners of different languages as well as online educators of best practices for foreign language teaching in a digital face-to-face environment.


h2. Methodology

This study will examine the relationship between corrective feedback (CF) used by second language tutors and the language being taught via videoconferencing tool. In addition, the effectiveness of CF types will be compared across languages to determine if some CF types are more efficient for certain languages in terms of learner uptake and repair. Finally, student perceptions of CF types and affordances of the videoconferencing tool for participants’ language learning experience will be gauged with a survey and select follow-up interviews.

In the table below, the six types of corrective feedback that will be used to code the tutor-student interactions are listed. The definitions of the corrective feedback types were taken from Tedick and Gotari’s (1998) study. In addition to coding the interactions by the following CF types, we will also look at the medium through which the language tutors deliver the CF types. In videoconferencing tools, teachers have the option of using video to express facial and hand gestures, audio to adjust intonation or to employ one of the below CF types, or text to help facilitate understanding. Videoconferencing tools also often include features such as file sharing, desktop sharing, and whiteboard space. How tutors employ these features and medium to deliver CF may be crucial in determining learner uptake and repair, especially when teaching a language with a script that is unfamiliar to the learner.

** Explicit correction: Clearly indicating that the student’s utterance was incorrect, the teacher provides the correct form.
** Recast: Without directly indicating that the student’s utterance was incorrect, the teacher implicitly reformulates the student’s error, or provides the correction.
** Clarification request: By using phrases like “Excuse me?” or “I don’t understand,” the teacher indicates that the message has not been understood or that the student’s utterance contained some kind of mistake and that a repetition or a reformulation is required.
** Metalinguistic clues: Without providing the correct form, the teacher poses questions or provides comments or information related to the formation of the student’s utterance (for example, “Do we say it like that?” “That’s not how you say it in French,” and “Is it feminine?”)
** Elicitation: The teacher directly elicits the correct form from the student by asking questions (e.g., “How do we say that in French?”), by pausing to allow the student to complete the teacher’s utterance (e.g., “It’s a…”) or by asking students to reformulate the utterance (e.g., “Say that again.”). Elicitation questions differ from questions that are defined as metalinguistic clues in that they require more than a yes/no response.
** Repitition: The teacher repeats the student’s error and adjusts intonation to draw student’s attention to it.

h2. Research Questions

Which types of corrective feedback are used most by NS French, Arabic, and Chinese tutors? Which medium and videoconferencing features do NS French, Arabic, and Chinese tutors employ during CF? Which type and CF medium leads to more efficient uptake/learning by second language learners of French, Arabic, and Chinese? How does content of CF differ across the three languages? How do learner perceptions of CF types and learning affordances of the videoconferencing tool used in this survey during a videoconferencing session differ across language?

h2. Hypothesis

Hypothesis 1: We anticipate finding that in the initial sessions, language tutors from each language will employ similar strategies in correcting errors, however as issues specific to each language begin to arise we expect language tutors to make adjustments that will eventually reflect CF strategies that are more compatible with the language they are teaching. 

Hypothesis 2: We expect to find that language tutors employ the video and audio aspects more in French due to the similarities between the French and English alphabet. For Chinese and Arabic, we expect the text function will be used more frequently to supplement the audio and video, as learners of these languages may struggle with making a connection between the phonetic and orthographic properties of the language.

Hypothesis 3: We believe that when tutors make use of all forms of medium, attention to form and to CF will be increased thus improving the chance for uptake and repair by the learner.

Hypothesis 4: We expect to find that NS French and Arabic tutors will focus more on grammatical errors, whereas NS Chinese tutors will focus on phonetic errors.

Hypothesis 5: We anticipate French learners reporting more positive perceptions surrounding CF and the videoconferencing tool, while Arabic and Chinese learners will report less positive perceptions due to difficulty that each language scripts presents. Also videoconferencing tools often overlook the needs of languages utilize scripts other than the Latin-alphabet.

h2. Results

Coming in Summer, 2016