---
layout: post
title: Co-curricular Speaking Activities&#58; Examining the Effects on Oral Proficiency and Listening Comprehension, Kennesaw State University
tags: research
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 20 Sep 2015

h2. Lead Investigator

Dr. Joe Terantino, Kennesaw State University

h2. Overview

The primary purpose of this project is to examine university students’ (second-year Spanish students; n = 240) development of oral proficiency and listening comprehension in response to interacting with TalkAbroad native speakers of Spanish as a required co- curricular activity. To accomplish this the project will compare the development of oral proficiency and listening comprehension of students from three groups: 1) students participating in TalkAbroad exchanges, 2) students participating in face-to-face (F2F) exchanges with native speakers on campus, and 3) students who are not participating in any exchanges. Data will be collected pre- and post-semester using the STAMP proficiency exam to measure gains in oral proficiency and listening comprehension. Results of this research project have the potential to shed light on the significance and impact of utilizing co-curricular speaking activities, both online and F2F, on the development of oral proficiency and listening comprehension skills. Doing so may enable university instructors to better plan for classroom-based and co-curricular activities.

The research project will attempt to determine if participating in co- curricular oral exchanges with native speakers via TalkAbroad has an impact on the students’ development of oral proficiency and listening comprehension. Specifically, it will compare the development of oral proficiency for students participating in the TalkAbroad exchange with students participating in F2F exchanges, and with those not participating in any exchanges. Such research will indicate whether the infusion and integration of extracurricular or co-curricular activities in university foreign language courses has an impact on the development of oral proficiency.

h2. Timeline

August 10, 2015 – December 31, 2015: PI will work with the Spanish coordinators to schedule TalkAbroad sessions for the 2nd-year Spanish students, implemented beginning in the Spring of 2016. Speaking activities will be designed with a clear connection to the existing KSU Spanish curriculum.

January 1, 2016 – May 15, 2016: TalkAbroad sessions will be conducted with 2nd-year Spanish students (n=40-50). Pre- and post-tests will be administered using the STAMP exam for both students using TalkAbroad and students not using TalkAbroad (n=80-100).

August 10, 2016 – December 31, 2016: TalkAbroad sessions will be conducted with 2nd-year Spanish students (n=40-50). On-campus sessions will be conducted with 2nd-year Spanish students (n=80-100). Pre- and post-tests will be administered using the STAMP exam for both students using TalkAbroad and students completing on-campus sessions.

January 1, 2017 – May 15, 2017: Summative grant reporting and research publication will be completed by lead investigator.

h2. Results

Coming in Fall, 2017