---
layout: post
title: Jordan Lawson, Wofford College
tags: story
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 30 Sep 2015

Jordan Lawson, Wofford College

The class that I had to do this TalkAbroad was for Spanish 303 and the assignment that I had to complete was to learn about the different groups of people who live in the country and region that my partner lived in.

Before doing the assignment, I was nervous about speaking for thirty minutes in Spanish because the longest that I had ever had a conversation only in Spanish was at the most ten minutes. As the conversation started, it was much easier to speak for the thirty minutes than I expected. I was surprised how easy answering some of the questions were because I did not realize how much Spanish that I have actually learned through the Spanish classes that I have. The person who I had a conversation did a great job helping to explain something to me if I did not fully understand a question by using Spanish words that I did know. I really enjoyed the conversation and I believed that it helped me learn some things that I did not know.

My partner Pablo was from Ecuador and the place that he lived in Ecuador was Otavalo which is where a group of indigenous people are thriving following the same traditions that they have for years. He said that they dressed in the traditional clothes and that they were very pretty. Also, he discussed that there were many different groups of people in Ecuador such as Otavalenos and many other groups. He said that he is has not seen or heard of any discrimination between the indigenous people and the other groups.
	
I believe that I did well in answering and asking some of the questions such as using the tenses and other grammar points that we have reviewed this semester. Also, I believe that I did a good job on understanding some of the vocabulary that my partner used while there were some that I did not know and he use other words to describe what he was saying. At first it was a little hard picking up the questions because of the accent. By the end of the conversation I could fully understand what he was saying or asking.
	
I thought the conversation was helpful for me and I enjoyed being able to talk about other information about where he lived after we finished the questions at the beginning. I am glad that I got the experience because I was very surprised of how good it went considering I was nervous about talking for thirty minutes.