---
layout: post
title: Second Year Spanish, Southern Illinois University Edwardsville
tags: shared_curriculum
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 10 Sep 2015

h2. Overview

The Spanish curriculum is aligned with the Standards for Foreign Language Learning, the 5 C’s: Communication, Cultures, Connections, Comparisons, and Communities.  

The Communities goal is to experience local and online Spanish-speaking communities and has been difficult to address due to the lack of opportunities for communication with native Spanish speakers locally.  In attempt to address this goal, we organize Spanish conversation hours for which we hire two students that are native-speakers of Spanish when possible.  The conversation hours take place twice a week.  Attendance to the conversation hours is sometimes problematic due to student’s conflicts of scheduling, therefore, attendance requirements range from 0-5 among the different courses and instructors.

The goal of this project is to develop a laboratory program that implements TalkAbroad as the tool for the laboratory component in second year Spanish and that aligns with our curriculum.  Therefore, one-credit hour of five courses will be devoted to students utilizing Talk Abroad.

h2. TalkAbroad Implementation

The objectives of the TalkAbroad requirement will be for students to:   
* converse with native speakers to improve their communicative competence,
* make connections and comparisons of their native and target language and culture 
* listen to the recordings and transcribe them for discussion, analysis, and reflection

There are a total of four conversation activities for students to complete.  One week they will prepare and complete the conversation and the following week they will transcribe and reflect on their learning. Students will submit recordings, transcriptions, and a self-reflection of their learning every other week for grading.

Sample topics for the conversations:
* Students talk about their daily routine.  Compare and contrast daily routines.
* Students will converse about the steps they take when preparing for a trip.  They will make a list of the things they would need to take to visit each other’s home country.
* Students will talk about a special day in their lives in the past.



h2. Project Lead

Dr. Heidy Cuervo Carruthers, Southern Illinois University Edwardsville